Title: Exploring Perceptions and Functioning of the Portuguese Rural Fire Management Group: A Qualitative Study

Abstract:
In the Portuguese Institute for Nature Conservation and Forests (ICNF), the Rural Fire Management Group (GFR) was initially established inside the Agency for Integrated Rural Fire Management (AGIF) in 2020 and in October 2021, was migrated to ICNF. From that date ICNF start to assuming responsibility for managing the technical aspects of rural fires. Despite its hierarchical structure, members have reported experiencing disorientation in their roles. Thus, it is crucial to map the technicians' understanding of the ideal organizational and strategic orientation for the group and to delineate steps that can improve the organization and enhance job satisfaction in this field.
This qualitative study tries to get insights through interviews in order to contribute to potential improvements and necessary adjustments, including training paths. The study objectives include understanding the scope of work within GFR, assessing satisfaction with current roles, foreseeing the future of GFR, identifying its main competencies, determining the optimal group structure, evaluating motivational levels for structural adaptations, and exploring the potential role of training in GFR implementation.
In addition to interviews, data from a SWOT analysis obtained during an internal meeting of the GFR was used. This enables a comparison between the analysis conducted through interviews and the findings from the SWOT analysis.
A set of five questions were developed: The disappointment results from?; Lack of capacity building results from?; Satisfaction results from?; Non-recognition results from?, which were justified through the development of interpretation logics of the interview results and the analysis of SWOT analysis results.
This research is considered important due to the accessibility of the group, the feasibility of remote interviews, and the capability to record interviews via the Teams platform.

Data: the data of this study is a file called GFR.nvp that is a file that can be opened with Nvivo 14 sofwtare
